---
layout: default
title:  "Blog_12"
categories: posts
---

### Blog_12
<br><br>


## *Kubernetes*<br>

### What is Kubernetes:<br><br>

In simple words Kubernetes is a container orchestrator for automating computer applications deployment and management. This is an open-source platform that lets us run distributed systems flexibly with failover for our application. It manages our containers the way that they are supposed to be and also manage the way those containers should work together. Kubernetes makes sure services are running smoothly the way we as an app developer want. 

## What are Kubernetes Features:
 - Resource Usage monitoring
 - Health check
 - Load Balancing
 - Managing multiple containers as one entity
 - Networking
 - Rolling update

## How kubernetes works:
Basically it is a cluster where you can have a master and several nodes inside the master. What master is doing there is, scheduling containers on the nodes which are under it, monitoring the nodes and containers. It also keeps track of the logs of what operations are performing on each container. 

## How Kubernetes can help us:
Kubernetes can help us by automating most of the tasks and managing clustered services. I am going to list some of the useful capabilities of kubernetes below. 
Automatic configuration of application network
Automatic distribution of services across infrastructure
Automatic load balancing between application components
Easy scale out application services when required
Sharing of storage across multiple containers

## Can we run kubernetes on AWS?

The answer is yes, AWS makes it easy for us to run Kubernetes. As I mentioned earlier, because kubernetes is an open-source we can use it to run our containerized applications anywhere without needing to change our operational tooling. On AWS, we can choose to manage kubernetes infrastructure with Amazon EC@ or get an automatically provisioned, managed kubernetes control panel with Amazon EKS.  

