---
layout: default
title:  "Blog_16"
categories: posts
---

### Blog_16
<br><br>


## *Terraform AWS Infrastructure*<br><br>
Last week I explained and compared two useful automation tools ( Ansible and Terraform) and mentioned where to use each one for better performance.<br>
This week I am going to use terraform to run a simple EC2 Instance in my Education AWS account. In this blog I will show how to configure an EC2 Instance with a security group that allows SSH connection from my network and HTTP from outside to access my webpage.
In order to create a terraform you need to create a file with .tf format. On my ubuntu machine, on Documents I created a file and named it “16.tf”.
It is very Important to have your access keys if you are using the AWS educate account. First, on your terminal you need to create a directory and name it “ /.aws “ and then create a file and name it “credentials”. Then you can copy the code from the console. The code is located in “Account Details” on the first page that appears after signing in.
After creating the “ .aws/credentials “ file you can go to terraform website and search for all commands that you need to build your infrastructure. https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/index.html
For example in this blog I searched for EC2 and security groups. You can add as much as services that you need for your projects.

Here I am giving to you commands that you will need to run to test and apply your codes.
Terraform init: Initialize the working directory container.
Terraform fmt: Used to rewrite terraform files to an acceptable format and style. 
Terraform plan: Used to create an execution plan.
Terraform apply: Used to apply the changes.

