---
layout: default
title:  "Blog_15"
categories: posts
---

### Blog_15
<br><br>


## *Ansible or Terraform*<br><br>


Today I want to go over the two useful tools that help us to create infrastructure as code. First, introduce what is Ansible and what is Terraform, then see which one is a better option for our projects.

### What is Ansible:<br><br>

Ansible is an automation tool for IT tasks such as configuring management and application deployment. It helps us to simplify complex tasks and make developers’ jobs much easier. 
<br><br>
### Advantages of Ansible:<br><br>

It is a free, open-source tool. Ansible is simple to set up and you do not need very special coding skills to use Ansible’s playbooks.

You can do all installation for your client system on your computer without any software installation or firewall port configuration on the client-side.<br><br>
 
### Modules:

Ansible works with modules, and modules are basically small programs that do the actual work. They get sent from the target machine to the servers (clients or any target machine). They do their work on target machines like, install, stop, or terminate services and when they are done get removed. There are many modules with different tasks such as small specific tasks to create or copy a file or create or terminate a cloud instance.
<br><br>

### What is Terraform:

Terraform allows you to automate and manage your infrastructure and your platform and services that run on the platform. It is open source like Ansible and uses declarative language (Ansible use YAML).

By going over these two automation tools we can see they both doing the same work: Infrastructure as a Code. Now I want to explain some similarities and differences and which one to use. 
<br><br>
### Similarity:
Both used to automate provisioning, configuring and managing the infrastructure
<br><br>
### Difference:
Terraform is mainly an infrastructure provisioning tool and also can deploy applications in other tools on that infrastructure.
Ansible is mainly a configuration tool. Once the infrastructure is provisioned and is there, it can be used to configure and deploy applications, install and update the software on that infrastructure. 
<br><br>

If I want to summarize I would say Terraform is a better tool for provisioning infrastructure and Ansible is a better tool for configuring that infrastructure deploying and installing applications and services on them. Using the combination of both would be a good practice to cover the whole setup. 
